Important design pattern cheat sheet:

Creational pattern:
1. singleton: 
Ensure one class has only one instance.
static variable is thread safe and lazy intialization in c++ 11

2. Factory method:
Creates object without exposing creation logic.
Depends on abstarction not concrete class
Client will have only Factory class
Follow open/close principle- easy extensible

4. Abstract factory (Factories of factory):
Creates a family of related objects without specifying the concrete classes.
Unlike factory method(one product) abstract facory creates a group of products.
eg Button and Checkbox factory for windows and mac

4. Builder:
Build object that requires many steps or optional parameter.
Avoids telescoping constructor.
Fluent interface — each method returns *this for chaining.
Solves the telescoping constructor anti-pattern
Director class can be added to standardize build sequence.

Structural pattern:

1. Adapter:
Make incompatible interface work together.
You have an existing class but its interface does not match with client expectation.

2. Decorator:
Add behaviour at runtime
Add responsibility to object at runtime without modifying the class
The decorator class has both is a relation and has a relation

3.Proxy:
A surrogates that control access to another object
Control access to an object - for lazy loading, caching, logging restrict

4. Facade:
One simple interface over a complex system
Provides a simple interface to a complex system hiding internal cpmplexity from client.
5. Composite design pattern:
Treat individual object and group same way.
Classical example file sytems, UI widgets tree, org chart

Behavioural pattern:
1. Observer:
Notify many when changes
When subject changes, all dependent are notified imediately
Cores of event driven system , GUI framework.

2. Strategy:
Swap or chnage strategy at runtime
eliminates if and else chains for algorithm.
Used haevily on payment system, routing restrict

3. Command:
Encapsulate an request as an object.
Undo redo an classical example.
Invoker does not know what command does, complete decoupling.

4. State:
Object changes behvaiour when its state changes.
An object should behave diffrently based on its state, eliminates massive if else and switch chaining.
vending machine, atm machine, order processing , tcp connection are clasic example.

